p8105_final_project.md, before:

P8105 Final Project Proposal
================
Matt Curran (mrc2229), Holly Finertie (hf2379), Jana Lee (jl5295),
Ashley Tseng (at3346), Lulu Zhang (ilz2105)
11/4/2019

## Proposal

**\[insert motivation\]** talk about climate change and increasing
frequency of natural disasters

**\[insert final products\]** Our team will submit (1) a written report
detailing our data collection and analysis, (2) a website and screencast
overview of our project and (3) a github repository that holds all this
information. These products will highlight the trend of natural
disasters across the United States from 1953 to 2018.

**\[insert data sources\]**

**\[insert analyses / visualizations / coding challenges\]** Our data
consist of natural disaster occurences by type of disaster, state,
county, and year among other variables. We’ll plan to include graphs of
disasters over the years to determine whether natural disasters are
increasing as we anticipate. Additionally, we will create a multiple
linear regression model with number of natural disasters as the outcome
and type of disaster, year, and county as the covariates of interest.

**\[insert timeline\]**

Commit message:

committing first draft of motivation for project, will clean up later

p8105_final_project.md, after:

P8105 Final Project Proposal
================
Matt Curran (mrc2229), Holly Finertie (hf2379), Jana Lee (jl5295),
Ashley Tseng (at3346), Lulu Zhang (ilz2105)
11/4/2019

## Proposal

**\[insert motivation\]** According to the United States Geological
Survey, “with global surface temperatures increases the possibility of
more droughts and increased intensity of storms will likely occur. As
more water vapor is evaporated into the atmosphere it becomes fuel for
more powerful storms to develop. More heat in the atmosphere and warmer
ocean surface temperatures can lead to increased wind speeds in tropical
storms. Rising sea levels expose higher locations not usually subjected
to the power of the sea and to the erosive forces of waves and
currents.” link:
<https://www.usgs.gov/faqs/how-can-climate-change-affect-natural-disasters-1?qt-news_science_products=0#qt-news_science_products>

**\[insert final products\]** Our team will submit (1) a written report
detailing our data collection and analysis, (2) a website and screencast
overview of our project and (3) a github repository that holds all this
information. These products will highlight the trend of natural
disasters across the United States from 1953 to 2018.

**\[insert data sources\]**

**\[insert analyses / visualizations / coding challenges\]** Our data
consist of natural disaster occurences by type of disaster, state,
county, and year among other variables. We’ll plan to include graphs of
disasters over the years to determine whether natural disasters are
increasing as we anticipate. Additionally, we will create a multiple
linear regression model with number of natural disasters as the outcome
and type of disaster, year, and county as the covariates of interest.

**\[insert timeline\]**
